Problem Statement: Generate year wise points-table for IPL using Spark
Scope:
- Make use of attached CSV for data ingestion
- Outcome should be a single CSV file with points table for each year
- Points table should contain year, team name, no. of matches played, no. of matches won, no. of matches lost, no. of matches tied, overall points ordered by year, points
- Points Calculation:
  - Winning team gets 2 points
  - In case of tied match where there is no super over both teams get 1 point each
  - In case of tied match with super over, winning team 2 points
- Points Table:
  - In case of equal points, team with more wins is higher in the order
  - In case of equal points and equal wins, order doesn’t necessarily match
- Team names have changed over years, while generating points table use the latest names of the teams. Eg: Deccan Charges is changed to SunRisers Hyderabad, Delhi Dare Devils is changed to Delhi Capitals.

Approach:

In order to get the desired result, we need to do following transformations on the input dataframe
1. First of all we need to consider only those columns which are important for us in this analysis.
  a. Year
  b. Match_Info: It is because this data contains result of eliminators, qualifiers and finals, we'll have to ignore them
  c. Match_Team
  d. Match_Result
2. Filtered the data on basis of:
  a. Match_Info: ignoring knock outs
  b. Match_Result: ignoring which have not been played yet
3. Splitting the Match_Team into two columns so that we can do transformations separately
4. Similarly, cleaning the Match_Result - as we only require who won (not by how much). We also considered the abandoned matches
5. After all this, we have to make the data consistent (across all three columns - Team1, Team2, and Result). Things we need to take care of:
  a. Case sensitivity
  b. Old names to new names
  c. Spell checks
  d. There are some cases where instead of team name only city name is provided, we need to take care of that too.
6. Finally, the data is prepared and we can get the result. For this, these were the steps I followed
  a. Each row was divided into two rows. This was the final schema: year - team name - ('2' if they won, '1' if match was abandoned, '0' if they lost)
  b. Used SQL statement to finally get the required numbers.
    i. Group by year and team
    ii. count(team) - for total matches
    iii. count(result if it was 2) - for total won
    iv. count(result if it was 1) - for total tie
    v.  count(result if it was 0) - for total losses
    vi. sum(result) - for total_points
    vii. Ordered by year(asc), total_points(desc) and total_won(desc)
    
  We had the desired result!
